---
name: EBBY AYUMA MULLAVU
dob: 1945-04-12
dod: 2023-12-20
county: Marsabit
pic: /assets/images/2023_12_20_1945_04_12_EBBY AYUMA MULLAVU.png
user: 2
layout: post
---

It is with humble acceptance of God's will that we announce the death of mama Ebby Ayuma Mullavu which occurred on 2nd Jan 2023 at the Kakamega County General Hospital after a short Illness.

Daughter of the late Timonah Lichoti and the late Mrs Eddah Busolo. Daughter in-law to the late Snr. Chief Jeremiah Segero and mama Dainah Segero. 

Beloved wife to Hon. Samuel Mullavu Segero MCA Isukha West Ward, former employee at the Kenya Airforce, former Court clerk and Retired Snr. Chief Illesi Location. 

Mother of Modester Sakase, Vivian Busolo, the late Vera Nasenya. Yvonne Atsenga, Harrison Mullavu, Malvin Khatenjo and Patience Inyanya. 

Sister to Joyce Tieni, Seth Shisietsanga, Kennedy Ihachi, the late Stephen Mugalsi, Aggrey Shitsukane, Johnstone Murull, Agrippina Khatembukhani, Harun Amwayi. Timothy Lichoti, Janet Ayuma and Jenipher Lichoti. 

Mother In-law to Lewis Ashiono and Josepeter Obuya. 

Grandmother to Lyandrews, Taryn, Hakim, Del, Darren, Flavian, Beryl and Wesley. 

The cortege leaves Kakamega County General mortuary on 13th January 2023 at 8.00am for her home in Illesi for body viewing. 

The funeral service will take place on 14th January 2023 at St. Augustine Mukumu Boys Primary and the body will be laid to rest at their lilesi home.

HumphreySegero.
Fare thee well mama, In our hearts you live forever
