---
name: Ebby Ayuma Mullavu 
dob: 1963-06-05
dod: 2023-01-02
county: Kakamega
pic: /assets/images/2023_01_02_1963_06_05_Ebby_Ayuma_Mullavu_.jpg
user: 2
layout: post
---
<p class='py-2'>It is with humble acceptance of God's will</p><p class='py-2'>that we announce the death of mama Ebby</p><p class='py-2'>Ayuma Mullavu which occurred on 2nd</p><p class='py-2'>Jan 2023 at the Kakamega County General Hospital after a short illness. </p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Daughter of the late Timonah Lichoti and the late Mrs Eddah Busolo. </p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Daughter in-law to the late Snr. Chief Jeremiah Segero and mama Dainah Segero.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Beloved wife to Hon. Samuel Mullavu Segero</p><p class='py-2'>MCA Isukha West Ward, former employee at</p><p class='py-2'>the Kenya Airforce, former Court clerk and</p><p class='py-2'>Retired Snr. Chief Illesi Location. </p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Mother of Modester Sakase, Humphrey Segero,</p><p class='py-2'>Vivian Busolo, the late Vera Nasenya. Yvonne Atsenga, Harrison Mullavu, Malvin</p><p class='py-2'>Khatenje and Patience Inyanya. </p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Sister to Joyce Tieni, Seth Shisietsanga, Kennedy</p><p class='py-2'>Ihachi, the late Stephen Mugaisi, Aggrey Shitsukane, Johnstone Murull, Agrippina</p><p class='py-2'>Khatembukhani, Harun Amwayi, Timothy Lichoti, Janet Ayuma and Jenipher Lichoti. Mother in-law to Lewis Ashiono and Josepeter Obuya. </p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Grandmother to Lyandrews, Taryn, Hakim, Del, Darren, Flavian, Beryl and Wesley.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>The cortege leaves Kakamega County General mortuary on 13th January 2023 at 8.00am for her home in Illesi for body viewing. The funeral service will take place on 14th January 2023 at St. Augustine Mukumu Beys Primary and the body will be laid to rest at their Illesi home.</p><p class='py-2'>Fare thee well mama, In our hearts you live forever</p><p class='py-2'></p>
