---
name: Leah Tapkili Talai Kimopsop
dob: 1982-08-12
dod: 2023-01-12
county: Nakuru
pic: /assets/images/2023_01_12_1982_08_12_Leah_Tapkili_Talai_Kimopsop.jpg
user: 2
layout: post
---
<p class='py-2'>It is with profound sorrow and acceptance</p><p class='py-2'>of God's will that we announce the death of</p><p class='py-2'>Leah Tapkili Talai Kimopsop of Kap Owino</p><p class='py-2'>Soln Ward, Rongal - Nakuru</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Daughter of Chebli Arap Chepyegon and</p><p class='py-2'>Mokyo Chebil of Karkiyol Village, Kocholwa,</p><p class='py-2'>Kelyo South.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Wife of the late Kimosop Arap Chemindir.</p><p class='py-2'>Sister of Taplileli Daudi, Eric Chebil, the late</p><p class='py-2'>Joseph Chebil and Musa Chabil.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Mother of Samuel Kimasop (RBA - Nairobi).</p><p class='py-2'>Mary Cheruiyot (Mukutanio), Hon. Susan</p><p class='py-2'>Chesyna (Nakuru), Kiptoo Kimasop (Principal</p><p class='py-2'>Samoel High School), Florence Mutal (County</p><p class='py-2'>Government of Nakuru), the late Mecha</p><p class='py-2'>Kimosop and Jennifer Too</p><p class='py-2'>Mother-in-Law of Grace, the late Cheruiyot</p><p class='py-2'>the late Elisha Chesyna, Joyce (County</p><p class='py-2'>Government of Nakuru), Maurice, Lilian,</p><p class='py-2'>David and Peninah. Leah Tapkili Talai Kimosop.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Grandmother of Jonathan, Kibet, Kipchumba, Eda, Kiptoo, Toro</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Great-Grandmother of Fridah, Jayden, Mindir, Ethan, Zyne, Margaret, Hezre</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Family and friends are meeting daily at Kogo Leah's home, Kap Owino others Ward at 4.00pm</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>There will be a mini fundraiser today, Wednesday, 11 January 2023 at Susan Cheslyn's home in Klamunyl, Nakuru, at 3.00pm. </p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>The main fundraiser will be held on Thursday, 12</p><p class='py-2'>January, 2023 at Kogo Leah's (Kap Owino), Soin Ward at 4.00pm.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>The cortege leaves War Memorial Mortuary on Saturday 14 January, 2023 at 8.30am for funeral service and burial at her home in Kap Owino, Soin Ward, from 10.00am.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'></p>
