---
name: Ebbu Ayuma Mullava
dob: 1960-04-22
dod: 2023-10-01
county: Nairobi
pic: /assets/images/2023_10_01_1960_04_22_Ebbu_Ayuma_Mullava.png
user: 2
layout: post
---
<p></p><p>It is with humble acceptance of God's will that we announce the death of mama Ebby Ayuma Mullavu which occurred on 2nd Jan 2023 at the Kakamega County General Hospital after a short Illness. </p><p>Daughter of the late Timonah Lichoti and the late Mrs Eddah Busolo. Daughter in-law to the late Snr. Chief Jeremiah Segero and mama Dainah Segero. </p><p>Beloved wife to Hon. Samuel Mullavu Segero MCA Isukha West Ward, former employee at the Kenya Airforce, former Court clerk and Retired Snr. Chief Illesi Location. </p><p>Mother of Modester Sakase, Vivian Busolo, the late Vera Nasenya. Yvonne Atsenga, Harrison Mullavu, Malvin Khatenjo and Patience Inyanya. </p><p>Sister to Joyce Tieni, Seth Shisietsanga, Kennedy Ihachi, the late Stephen Mugalsi, Aggrey Shitsukane, Johnstone Murull, Agrippina Khatembukhani, Harun Amwayi. Timothy Lichoti, Janet Ayuma and Jenipher Lichoti. </p><p>Mother In-law to Lewis Ashiono and Josepeter Obuya. Grandmother to Lyandrews, Taryn, Hakim, Del, Darren, Flavian, Beryl and Wesley. </p><p>The cortege leaves Kakamega County General mortuary on 13th January 2023 at 8.00am for her home in Illesi for body viewing. </p><p>The funeral service will take place on 14th January 2023 at St. Augustine Mukumu Boys Primary and the body will be laid to rest at their lilesi home.</p><p>Humphrey Segero,</p><p>Fare thee well mama, In our hearts you live forever</p>
