---
name: free testee
dob: 2025-10-10
dod: 2025-10-02
county: testland
pic: /assets/images/2025_10_02_2025_10_10_free_testee.jpeg
user: https://test.rip.ke/free_free tester_free@test.com_1234567890
layout: free_post
---
<p class='py-2'>Education and Formation</p><p class='py-2'>Richard’s academic journey started in the local schools in Mbiuni, Machakos County, a walking distance away. He then proceeded to Kabaa High School and then Kapsabet Boys’ High School, a bus-ride away, where he completed his A-levels. Most of his teachers remember him because even in those formative years, his academic excellence and leadership stood out.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>It came as a surprise to no one when he attained stellar grades that saw him pursue a Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Nairobi (1974–1978). There, we are told, he served as the Director of Entertainment, showing that he was not only a scholar but someone who appreciated the balance between science and whatever lay in between life.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>In 1979, he moved to the United Kingdom to pursue a Master of Science in Applied Immunology at Brunel University. He was there for two years, returning in 1981 with a fresh degree.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>It was here that he deepened his interest in innovative technologies and their practical application in livestock health and productivity. He was especially passionate about the potential of veterinary science to improve livelihoods across Africa.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>He was now called Daktari amongst his friends, an ode, not just to his professional expertise, but to the deep respect and trust people had in him.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Professional Life and Vision</p><p class='py-2'>Dr. Muia dedicated over four decades to veterinary science and agricultural development. He began his career at the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI), where he worked as a research scientist focusing on immunity and the biochemistry of East Coast Fever.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>He later joined Welcome Kenya Ltd as a Veterinary Field Officer (1982–1987), where he trained farmers and worked on disease control and vaccine quality assurance. At the Kenya Veterinary Vaccine Production Institute (1989–1992) Richard contributed to critical work on livestock immunisation, including Foot and Mouth Disease.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>As a Veterinary Clinician at Crip Veterinary Services (1993–2002), he worked directly with animals and farmers, conducting clinical farm visits, disease prevention programs, treatments, and artificial insemination services.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>His most visionary role came as Founder and CEO of World Cyber Farm, where he spent over 15 years designing programs, conducting farmer trainings, and advocating for improved livestock production and trade. He focused on holistic animal health solutions, from reproductive health and feeding systems to pet and livestock insurance.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>His career mission was simple but profound: to uplift farmers, build food systems and livestock trade, and improve livelihoods through knowledge.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Family and Personal Life</p><p class='py-2'>Richard was introduced to his wife Emma Wambui Muia by their mutual friend the late Joyce Ciira and the connection blossomed into a lasting partnership resulting in 42 years of marriage. He was a loving husband and a proud father, deeply committed to the welfare of his loved ones.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Together, they raised four children: Antony Kamau Njanja, Linda Muia, Victor Muia, and Olivia Muia. He was a loving father-in-law to Brian Magu, and Tata (grandfather) to Victor Kisangau, Patrick Muriuki Magu, and Leo Ngaa Magu, who brought him immense joy in his later years.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>To his family, Richard was a protector, a teacher, a mentor, and a steady source of strength.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Faith, Fellowship and Community</p><p class='py-2'>Richard was a man of quiet but steadfast faith. He was baptised and confirmed in the Catholic Church, and for many years was an active member of the Catholic community. While living in Lang’ata, he joined a vibrant prayer fellowship known as Southlands HGF, where he built meaningful spiritual friendships and remained grounded in shared devotion and prayer. He attended services at Nairobi Baptist Church, where he found a welcoming community, briefly joined the media team, and continued to deepen his walk with God.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Return to His Roots</p><p class='py-2'>In 2020, on announcement of the COVID-19 lockdown, Daktari and his wife made a significant move, relocating from Lang’ata, where the family had lived for over 30 years, to their home in Nditha, the very place where Richard had begun his early life.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>This return to his roots was not just a change of scenery, but a deliberate embrace of the land and community that shaped him. Together, the couple focused on farming, with Richard particularly drawn to pig rearing. He established the WCF Pork Butchery in Kabaa and later opened another in the Mbiuni market.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Beyond livestock, Richard had a passion for trees. He was fiercely dedicated to planting for greenery and also spent many days nurturing orange and mango trees, envisioning a flourishing orchard. His family remains committed to keeping this legacy alive, continuing to care for the land, the trees, and the vision he planted with so much heart.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Illness and Passing</p><p class='py-2'>In his final days, Dr. Muia faced a brief illness with the same quiet resilience that had defined his life. On the early morning of Tuesday, 13th May, he asked to be taken to hospital after experiencing pain on his left side, coupled with a suspected pneumonia and strained breathing. He was initially seen at a local healthcare facility before being quickly transferred to MP Shah Hospital in Parklands, Nairobi.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>There, he was admitted to the High Dependency Unit (HDU) and transferred to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). On the morning of Saturday, 18th May, he underwent a procedure on his left lung. While the procedure appeared to go well, several complications flared later that afternoon, and his condition began to deteriorate rapidly.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>In the early hours of Sunday, 19th May at 1:00 a.m., in the presence of loved ones and in the care of medical professionals, Daktari passed away.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Richard had previously managed high blood pressure and goitre related challenges for a number of years. Yet through it all, he remained strong, calm, and grounded.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>His passing was sudden, and it has left a deep void in our hearts, in our homes, and communities. But even in our grief, we hold onto the dignity and resolve with which he lived, and the strength he showed until the very end.</p><p class='py-2'></p>
