---
name: Tah Vyk
dob: 2025-10-16
dod: 2025-10-17
county: Lamu
pic: /assets/images/2025_10_17_2025_10_16_Tah_Vyk.jpg
user: https://test.rip.ke/free_Vyk Tah _vyk@duck.com_1234567890
layout: free_post
---
<p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Richard Muia</p><p class='py-2'>12 Apr 53 - 19 May 25</p><p class='py-2'>Share</p><p class='py-2'>Nairobi</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Select your country</p><p class='py-2'>Early Life and Roots</p><p class='py-2'>Early Life and Roots</p><p class='py-2'>From an early age, Richard Muia displayed a sharp mind and a curious spirit, often inviting debate and challenging ideas. This sense of leadership would become a hallmark of his life. Born on April 12, 1953, in Mbiuni, Machakos County, he was the firstborn son of the late Simon Muia and Elizabeth Nduku. As the eldest in a large family, he bore significant responsibility for his siblings: Pius Nzoka Muia, Michael Muia, Kaloki Muia, the late Gregory Kavita, the late Patrick Mutinda, Teresiah Mbula, Bridgit Muli, Philomena Kalondu Mutiso, and Catherine Mueni Mutuku. Known for his dogged determination, a strong sense of justice, and an admired stoicism, Richard knew exactly what he stood for. While some perceived him as headstrong or even stubborn, he simply possessed an unwavering clarity about his boundaries.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Family Tree</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Education and Formation</p><p class='py-2'>Richard’s academic journey started in the local schools in Mbiuni, Machakos County, a walking distance away. He then proceeded to Kabaa High School and then Kapsabet Boys’ High School, a bus-ride away, where he completed his A-levels. Most of his teachers remember him because even in those formative years, his academic excellence and leadership stood out.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>It came as a surprise to no one when he attained stellar grades that saw him pursue a Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Nairobi (1974–1978). There, we are told, he served as the Director of Entertainment, showing that he was not only a scholar but someone who appreciated the balance between science and whatever lay in between life.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>In 1979, he moved to the United Kingdom to pursue a Master of Science in Applied Immunology at Brunel University. He was there for two years, returning in 1981 with a fresh degree.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>It was here that he deepened his interest in innovative technologies and their practical application in livestock health and productivity. He was especially passionate about the potential of veterinary science to improve livelihoods across Africa.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>He was now called Daktari amongst his friends, an ode, not just to his professional expertise, but to the deep respect and trust people had in him.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>Professional Life and Vision</p><p class='py-2'>Dr. Muia dedicated over four decades to veterinary science and agricultural development. He began his career at the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI), where he worked as a research scientist focusing on immunity and the biochemistry of East Coast Fever.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>He later joined Welcome Kenya Ltd as a Veterinary Field Officer (1982–1987), where he trained farmers and worked on disease control and vaccine quality assurance. At the Kenya Veterinary Vaccine Production Institute (1989–1992) Richard contributed to critical work on livestock immunisation, including Foot and Mouth Disease.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>As a Veterinary Clinician at Crip Veterinary Services (1993–2002), he worked directly with animals and farmers, conducting clinical farm visits, disease prevention programs, treatments, and artificial insemination services.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>His most visionary role came as Founder and CEO of World Cyber Farm, where he spent over 15 years designing programs, conducting farmer trainings, and advocating for improved livestock production and trade. He focused on holistic animal health solutions, from reproductive health and feeding systems to pet and livestock insurance.</p><p class='py-2'></p><p class='py-2'>His career mission was simple but profound: to uplift farmers, build food systems and livestock trade, and improve livelihoods through knowledge.</p>
